- [Instructor] The batch status assigned
to a job or step is important
because it is used by the framework
to determine if a job succeeded
or failed, which ultimately,
determines if a job can be restarted.
Job flows are not always simple
and sometimes we need control over the batch status assigned
to a job.
To handle this, Spring Batch provides three transitions
to stop a job, and override the default batch status.
These transition elements are end, fail and stop.
By default, the batch status of a job
is marked as completed
if the exit status of its steps
does not return failed
and no transitions are specified.
When transitions such as on are present,
it gets a little bit more complicated.
In some scenarios, a step can fail
but due to an on transition,
the batch status of the job is marked as completed.
When we want to alter this behavior,
we use one of the stop transitions.
If we take a look at our job configuration,
you'll see that we have already used
the end stop transition.
If we were to configure our job to fail,
so let's go to the driveToAddressStep
and we're going to change our Boolean to true
to say we got lost,
our job's going to fail
but because we have configured our job
to use the end stop transition,
it's going to be marked as completed.
So let's hop over to the terminal
and we're going to run our job
and we'll see that we'll receive the exception,
because we got lost,
but when we look at the metadata stored regarding the job,
we'll see that the batch status is successful.
So there we see our stack trace.
Now if we head over to the database
and we look in the job repository,
and if we look at our batch job execution,
we're going to see that it was complete
and then when we look at the step executions,
you'll see that our driveToAddressStep was abandoned.
So that's not what we want to happen.
In this case, we would never be able to deliver our package.
So let's go ahead and clear the metadata
within the job repository
and I'm just doing that by dropping the tables.
And we'll navigate back to our job configuration.
That last status was not ideal
so let's take a look at another status named stop.
Stop is going to allow us to pause the job
and then we can fix whatever the problem is
and rerun it at a later time.
So what we'll do is here where we are failing,
instead of executing our storePackageStep,
we've going to replace that with a call
to the stop method.
And in this case, we're just going to pause the job
and allow for it to be manually fixed
by a batch job operator
and then we can rerun it.
So let's go back to our console
and we're going to clear it
and then rerun our job.
This time, the job is going to pause.
So we'll see the exception thrown.
There's our exception
but you'll notice that it's in the stopped status.
That's going to allow us to go back
and we'll just head into our class
and we're going to go to the driveToAddressStep
and we're just going to manually fix the job.
Typically this would be changing some data
or figuring out what the problem was and resolving it.
In our case, we're just going to flip our Boolean
so that we can successfully execute the job.
So here I'll clear our terminal
and then we're going to go ahead
and run the job again.
You'll notice this time,
we're able to actually restart the job
and it can successfully process.
Okay.
So there we were able to successfully complete
the driveToAddressStep
and then we went through the remaining flow of the job.
Now, we're going to take a look
at an additional status that we can use
and that's the failed status.
So let's navigate back to our job configuration.
I'm going to flip over to fail the job.
We're going to get lost.
And then if we navigate to the configuration
of the job, instead of stopping,
we're just going to go ahead and fail.
And now, we'll need to first clear out our metadata
so I'm just going to drop all the tables again.
This is just for demonstration purposes
and then I'm going to clear our console.
And we'll rerun the job.
This time, we'll notice
that we will get lost.
We'll throw the exception
but the job will fail,
which is much better than being marked as completed.
We're explicitly marking the job as failed.
So there you see that the status of the job is failed.
We can take a look at that
within our database if we want
to query the different executions
and their statuses.
So here we can see that our driveToAddressStep did fail
and if we take a look at the status for the job execution,
it's failed as well.
Now, with that, we can go ahead
and within our application,
we can resolve the problem.
So let's go back and we're going
to mark our Boolean as false.
That's going to allow the job to succeed
and if we navigate back to the terminal,
you'll notice that we're able to rerun the job this time
because we're in a failed status
and the job will succeed.
So using the different stop transitions,
and the corresponding methods in the Java configuration,
we're able to get better control over the batch status
of our job.
And that's important because these transitions
can put our job in a state
that allows us to rerun it.
We need to be extra careful
when we're using the on transition
that we don't place a job into a state
because of it's batch status
that will not allow us to recover from an error.